=======================================
2.1 Continuous Professional Development
=======================================

By undertaking a wide range of CPD, teaching and learning support
practitioners are more likely
to inspire pupils and practice effectively to enable pupils to achieve in
rich learning environments. CPD should not only meet the needs of the
school or education facility but also the needs of individual teachers.
Reflection, evaluation, planning and implementation of development systems
enables teachers and teaching staff to keep up to date with educational
knowledge, training skills and best practice. As a result, those
undertaking regular CPD are more fulfilled and confident in their
abilities, knowledge and responsibilities. This module compliments the
Reflective Practice module to encourage course members to engage in
ongoing reflection, planning and carrying out systems to help strengthen
professional credibility for career development. 

Aims
====

* Further develop specific aspects of their own role
* Extend their current repertoire of skills in supporting learners
* Make an active contribution to a community of practice
* Identify Individual progress and development throughout the year with
  future directions for CPD

Learning Outcomes
=================

#. **Investigate** and analyse CPD opportunities within the role
#. **Develop** two specific areas of practice within the current academic
   year.
#. **Devise** a comprehensive strategy which will address the identified
   areas
#. **Reflect** and evaluate upon CPD activities undertaken and identify
   areas for future development with reference to Professional Development
   Portfolio

Assessment
==========

* Ability to build on and continue aspects of their professional practice
  completed in the first year  
* Knowledge and application of different methodologies to address their
  own learning needs for professional development.

.. admonition:: A written assignment: 1200 words, LO1-3
   :class: note

   * Include a CUPA analysis and action plans to formulate and devise
     a strategy to address two specific development areas identified from
     needs analysis   
   * Investigate formal and informal CPD opportunities available for own
     role.  

.. admonition:: A written reflection: 1800 words, LO4

   * Analyses CPD activities and individual progress throughout academic
     year and to identify future development needs supported by
     a portfolio of evidence which identifies professional development
     throughout the year based on occupational standards. Professional
     Development Portfolio is mentor approved and verified with formal
     formative feedback.

Reading List
============

**Bold, C.**
(2011) 
*Supporting Learning and Teaching.* 2nd ed.
London: David Fulton.

**Cooper, H. (Editor)**
(2018) 
*Professional Studies in Primary Education.* 3rd ed. 
London: SAGE.

**Ghaye, A.**
(2011) 
*Teaching and Learning Through Critical Reflective Practice: a practical
guide for positive action.* 2nd ed.
London: Routledge.

**Moon, J.**
(2015) 
*Reflection in Learning and Professional Development: Theory and
Practice.* 
London: Routledge Falmer.

**Moon, J.**
(2004) 
*A Handbook of Reflective and Experiential Learning Theory and Practice.* 
London: Routledge Falmer.

**Overall, L.**
(2007) 
*Supporting Children’s Learning – A Guide for Teaching Assistants.*
London: SAGE.

**Roffey-Barentsen J. and Malthouse, R.**
(2013) 
*Reflective Practice in Education and Training.* 2nd Ed London: Sage.

_________

**Bolton, G**
(2014)
*Reflective Practice: Writing and Professional Development.* 4th ed.
London: Sage.

**Cross V, Caladine L, Morris J, Hilton R, Bristow H. and Moore A.**
(2009)
*The Practice-Based Educator: A Reflective Tool for CPD and
Accreditation.*
Chichester: John Wiley & Sons.

**Ellis, V.**
(2011)
*Learning and Teaching in Secondary Schools.* 4th ed.
Exeter: Learning Matters.

**Ewens, T.**
(2014)
*Reflective Primary Teaching.*
Northwich: Clinical Publishing Services.

**Hayes, D.**
(2009)
*Learning and Teaching in Primary Schools.*
Exeter: Learning Matters.

**Hall, F. Hindmarsh D., Hoy, D., Machin, L.**
(2015)
*Supporting Primary Teaching and Learning.*
Critical Publishing Ltd.

**Megginson, D. and Whitaker, V.**
(2007)
*Continuing Professional Development.* 2nd ed.
London: CIPD.

**Pollard, A.**
(2014)
*Reflective Teaching in Schools.* 4th ed.
London: Bloomsbury Academic. (Reflective teaching).

**Tarrant, P.**
(2013)
*Reflective Practice and Professional Development.*
London: SAGE.

**Watkinson, A**
(2005)
*Learning and Teaching: the essential guide for higher level teaching
assistants.*
London: David Fulton.

**Watkinson, A**
(2005)
*Professional Values and Practice: the essential guide for higher level
teaching assistants.*
London: David Fulton.
